# Week 4: Content-Based Recommendation Systems

This paper was an overview of content-based recommendations systems. First, they give a general description on why we would need a system like this. An example is that there is too much information and that we need to somehow categorize it an give a user a handful of it so they can process it. After that, they explain what a user profile is, which is basically what a user's preferences are. These can be implicit or explicit, both with their benefits and drawbacks. 
Then, you actually have to make a model. These are explained on a superficial level. There are the decision trees, the nearest neighbor methods, the relevance feedback, the linear classification, and the probabilistic methods. They don't necessarily explain how they work but give a rough description of how they work so the reader can get an idea of the context in which they are used. They finish off saying how it depends on the data in which model you are going to use, and sometimes content-based algorithms aren't suitable for the job, in which a collaborative recommender could be used instead.

I did not enjoy this paper as much as I hoped I would. It was too vague in its explanations, but also used overly precise jargon. In one chapter it explains how internet webpages work, and then in another one it glosses over the Rocchio's algorithm (which is not common knowledge). This means that for the average computer science enthusiast (someone who has the minimum comprehension of technology) might already know most of the context that they give, but will still be confounded at how they got some formulas and how they work. 

A way this paper could be improved is by explaining without showing complex formulas and using puzzling lingo. Most of the paper is superficial explanations and is a good paper to get references from, but not one to go to if you want to make a content based recommendation system for real. 
