# Week 2: Matrix Factorization Techniques for Recommender Systems

This paper was an explanation of the Matrix Factorization model for recommender Systems. It starts off explaining what this model consists of, how it differentiates itself from the other models and why it is useful. Then it shows a few basic formulas on which it operates and what each component means; this model basically represents each user and item as vectors in f-dimension, and uses a minimizing function to find values to help predict. After that, it add to these formulas giving it biases (based on how much more compared a user will give an item compared to the average, rather than based on if it was high or low), implicit information ( lkke demographics and if users give interest in an item), temporal dynamics (basing ratings on a temporal function rather than a static one, since these things change over time), and how to add weight to different inputs.

This paper was pretty good since you can see how your basic formula transforms when you add new things to take in consideration. It tells you why your adding these new aspects (be it a bias, temporal dynamic, etc) and gives examples on when these things should be added. Since everything is followed by an example, it is very easy to visualize the reasoning behind the integration of these things.

One thing I did not like about this paper was the poor explanation of how they got the basic formula of the matrix factorization model. It is not explained so well why this is the best formula and one must study it and internalize it to understand what is going on. Another thing is that they don't really explain how this model could be improved in the future, or describe aspects of this formula that are making this model suboptimal