# Week 7: Interactive recommender systems: a survey of the state of the art and future research challenges and opportunities

In this paper, for the most part, we explore 6 objectives that we would like to see in recommender systems to improve user experience. These six objectives are: transparency, or how to describe how the recommender system is working and not have it as a black box; justification, similar to transparency but more related to why it recommends certain items rather than explaining how it does it; controllability, how the user could give their input and have them give feedback on recommended items; diversity, having items that a user would like to be recommended, but also not have them be so similar; cold start, a problem centered around new items or new users in which there isn't enough information to be able to recommend anything with certainty; acquiring contextual information, for example the emotional value of a certain item. To be able to present these types of objectives, they research 24 different systems that have been able to achieve at least one of these goals and studying their visual techniques. They describe, in a very high level, how these recommender systems are able to achieve the goals that they are able to achieve. In the fifth section, about the analysis of the different algorithms, they present what objectives are done by what systems. Table 1 is a great summary of this section and how they compare with each other. 

This scientific paper is very complete. It leaves very little to the imagination of the reader, giving out example after example of every subject covered in this investigation. Furthermore, it is able to give out concrete examples of solutions to problems that recommender systems face. This is especially helpful when trying to put things into perspective and seeing that not every recommender system is perfect. There are always some things that a system will not be able to accomplish, whether because it might be because it is too much work to find out how to implement something, or it just can’t be implemented with the current system.

Upon finishing this paper, I only had one question. We saw lots of different examples that were solving different combination of objectives, but how do these different implementations relate to user satisfaction? Also, is there a combination that most users find it to their liking over all the other ones? All these methods and systems look to bring a new and enjoyable experience to the user, and bringing actual humans into the equation might make it more of a social research rather than a scientific one, but it’s still something to take in consideration and hopefully someday be able to answer. 
